
Conclusion
==========

This thesis was concerned with the evolutionary induction of the oblique binary decision trees using nonincremental approach. Two algorithms were presented, one for a single classifier induction called |algo|, and the other for a decision tree ensemble induction called |ealgo|. Furthermore, two architectures were proposed for hardware acceleration of the two induction algorithms.

The proposed |algo| algorithm was created in an attempt to devise a strategy for the DT induction that would induce smaller DTs than the existing solutions without the loss in accuracy, but try to use as little resources for the induction as possible. It was shown in the thesis that the |algo| algorithm succeeds in fulfilling the requirements that were set in the beginning:

- It operates only on one DT individual, unlike many full DT induction algorithms that use the populations of 20 to 100 or more individuals. This implies a 20 to 100 fold times less resources needed for its implementation, which are critical in embedded systems. Furthermore, the most time consuming task of accuracy calculation, besides the control flow, comprises only the simple operations of multiplication and addition performed for the node test evaluations. Hardware blocks that perform these operations are found in abundance within the chips used in embedded systems, such as DSPs and FPGAs.
- It is easily parallelizable. Within the accuracy calculation, each instance from the training set traverses the DT by itself and the traversal is decoupled from the traversals of other instances, which is suitable for parallelization by either pipelining or completely performing the instance traversal in parallel.
- It produces smaller DTs than the existing solutions, without the loss in DT accuracy, which was proved by the experiments in the :num:`Section #sec-efti-experiments`.

Second, a parameterizable co-processor for the hardware aided DT induction using an evolutionary approach, called |cop|, was proposed. The |cop| co-processor can be used for the hardware acceleration of the DT accuracy evaluation task, since this task was proven in the :num:`Section #sec-complexity` and :num:`Section #profiling-results` to be the execution time bottleneck. The |algo| algorithm was adapted to take advantage of the |cop| co-processor in a HW/SW co-design architecture. Comparison of the HW/SW |algo| algorithm implementation with the pure software implementations suggests that the proposed HW/SW architecture offers substantial speedups for all the tests performed on the selected UCI datasets.

Next, the |ealgo| algorithm was presented which uses the |algo| algorithm together with Bagging to induced the DT ensembles. The experimental results discussed in the :num:`Section #sec-ens-advantages`, show that the ensembles induced by the |ealgo| algorithm are superior in terms of the classification accuracies than the single classifier DTs induced by the |algo| algorithm.

Finally, a parameterizable co-processor, called |ecop|, is proposed. The |ecop| co-processor can be used for the hardware aided induction of the DT ensembles using EA. It was shown in the paper that the |ealgo| algorithm spends most of the execution time in the DT accuracy evaluation process, hence the |ecop| co-processor was developed to accelerate that task. The |ealgo| algorithm has been implemented in the software and modified to use the |ecop| co-processor implemented in the FPGA as a co-processor. Comparison of the HW/SW implementation of the |ealgo| algorithm with the pure software implementations suggests that the proposed HW/SW architecture offers substantial speedups for all tests performed on selected UCI datasets.
